In this video I'll explain transport zones and how they can be used to control the scope of our logical
switches.
So here we see a really simple diagram.
I've got two clusters of ESX high hopes and just keep it really really simple.
I only put two hosts in each cluster right so I have a cluster on the left.
That's called the inside cluster and on the right I have a cluster called the DMZ cluster and maybe
I want to create some logical switches but I don't necessarily want those logical switches to span both
of these clusters.
If I create a logical switch for the DMZ cluster I don't necessarily want VM on the inside cluster to
also see that switch and be able to connect to it.
I might want to keep those two environments separated so that I can do is I can create a transport zone.
So let's go ahead and identify one transport zone I'll call it the DMZ transport zone and my DMZ transport
zone is going to include certain clusters of ESX hosts.
So in this case I've only included one cluster the DMZ cluster and let's create one more transport zone
here.
I'm going to call it the inside transport zone.
And really similar to what I did on the DMZ side the only cluster's included in this transport zone
are clusters that are on the inside of my network.
The inside cost.
Now I can go ahead and create a logical switch and when I do so I'll specify the transport zone that
logical switch is going to be associated with.
So for example let's say that I create a logical switch and I specify that it's going to exist on the
DMZ transport zone.
That means that that particular logical switch will only be available on the hosts that are part of
that DMZ cluster.
And so I can't connect via SMS on the inside cluster to it.
And same thing if I create a logical switch and I associate it within the inside transport zone while
that logical switch will only be available to those hosts that are within that inside transport zone.
So now I can use these transport zones to define the scope of my logical switches.
But we have more flexibility than this event.
I can create a third transport zone.
I'm going to call this one the global transport zone.
And this transport zone is going to be a little bit different because now I'm creating one transport
zone that actually spans both of these ESX I host clusters.
So now if I create a logical switch within that global transport zone its going to span all of the ESX
I hosts in both Klosters.
So the effect is I can now create a logical switch that will be available on all of the hosts on the
inside cluster and in the DMZ cluster.
I've now created a layer 2 network that is available on both of these clusters and you have to be careful
of this right.
If these two clusters are supposed to be isolated from each other.
Well if we start connecting via SMS on both clusters of the same logical switch we don't have a whole
lot of isolation there.
Now we could do some stuff with our distributed firewall rules but this might not be something in real
life that you actually want to do.
I just wanted to illustrate it here to demonstrate the flexibility that we have with these transport
zones and what role they provide.